.\" Copyright 2014 Google Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\"
.\" * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" * Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its contributors
.\"   may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"   without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.Dd November 6, 2014
.Dt SHTK_CONFIG_LOAD 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm shtk_config_load
.Nd Loads a configuration file
.Sh LIBRARY
shtk_import config
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar config_file
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
function parses and loads the configuration file given by
.Ar config_file .
.Pp
Only the configuration variables previously registered as valid with a call to
.Xr shtk_config_init 3
will be recognized as valid variables during load.
Any variables defined by the configuration file but not registered in the
.Nm
module will be ignored during load.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Consider the following configuration file:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
prefix=/usr
OBJDIR="${prefix}/obj"
SRCDIR="${prefix}/src"
.Ed
.Pp
The following piece of code illustrates how to load and display the settings
of the file above:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
shtk_config_init OBJDIR SRCDIR
shtk_config_load ".../path/to/the/file/above.conf"

echo "prefix was defined but is not available:" \\
    "$(shtk_config_get_default prefix default-value)"
echo "OBJDIR is $(shtk_config_get OBJDIR)"
echo "SRCDIR is $(shtk_config_get SRCDIR)"
.Ed
.Sh ERRORS
Errors during the processing of
.Ar config_file
result in the termination of the caller script.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr shtk 3 ,
.Xr shtk_config 3
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
first appeared in
.Nm shtk
1.0.
