.\" Copyright 2014 Google Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\"
.\" * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" * Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its contributors
.\"   may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"   without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.Dd July 18, 2026
.Dt SHTK_UNITTEST_MAIN 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm shtk_unittest_main
.Nd Standard test program entry point
.Sh LIBRARY
shtk_import unittest
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
function implements the standard entry point of a test program that uses the
.Xr shtk_unittest 3
library.
The
.Nm
function runs all test cases registered within the test case and determines
the correct exit condition for the test program.
.Pp
In order to use
.Nm ,
test programs must either explicitly call the function from their
.Nm main
method as this:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
main() { shtk_unittest_main "${@}"; }
.Ed
.Pp
Or the test program can be compiled with an override for the main method's
name:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ shtk build -m shtk_unittest_main module_test.sh
.Ed
.Pp
During development, the test program can instead be run directly with:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ shtk test module_test.sh
.Ed
.Pp
In general, prefer selecting the entry point with
.Xr shtk 1
instead of defining a wrapper function.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Returns 0 (true) if all executed test cases pass, or 1 (false) if any
test fails.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr shtk 1 ,
.Xr shtk 3 ,
.Xr shtk_unittest 3
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
first appeared in
.Nm shtk
1.6.
