.\" Copyright 2016 Google Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\"
.\" * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" * Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its contributors
.\"   may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"   without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.Dd September 14, 2016
.Dt SHTK_ABORT 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm shtk_abort
.Nd Aborts the program with an optional error message
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Ar message1 .. messageN
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
function prints the given error message to stderr and terminates
execution of the script, including all subshells leading up to the call to
.Nm .
.Pp
The exit code of the script is non-zero but unspecified.
.Pp
The message, if provided, can be broken up as one or more arguments as
depicted by
.Ar message1
to
.Ar messageN ;
all arguments are concatenated together into a single line.
.Pp
It is important to note that
.Nm
should be used exclusively to abruptly abort the script due to an internal
error or inconsistency.
Think of this function as a mechanism to implement assertions:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
[ -n "${should_be_set}" ] || shtk_abort "Internal variable not set!"
.Ed
.Pp
This is why
.Nm
is
.Em not
in the
.Xr shtk_cli 3
module, because it is not meant to provide a mechanism for clean program
terminations and because it is provided for self-diagnostics purposes.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr shtk 3 ,
.Xr shtk_cli 3
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
first appeared in
.Nm shtk
1.7.
