.\" Copyright 2014 Google Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\"
.\" * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" * Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its contributors
.\"   may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"   without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.Dd November 4, 2014
.Dt SHTK 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm shtk
.Nd Application Programming Interface (API) of the Shell Toolkit
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The Shell Toolkit, or
.Nm
for short, is a collection of modules written in
.Xr sh 1
that provide common functionality to simplify the implementation of complex
shell scripts.
This page provides an introduction to writing scripts using
.Nm
and serves as a reference to all the provided modules by it.
.Ss Script structure
Scripts using
.Nm
follow this structure:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
shtk_import module1
shtk_import moduleN

# possibly define globals here

some_custom_function() {
    local arg1="${1}"; shift
    local arg2="${1}"; shift

    # do something
}

main() {
    # program entry point; automatically invoked
}
.Ed
.Pp
In particular, note: that there is no shebang line at the beginning of the
script; that there is no explicit call to
.Nm main ;
and that there is no code outside of shell functions other than for calls to
.Xr shtk_import 3 .
.Ss Script compilation
The
.Xr shtk 1
tool offers a compilation process for scripts using
.Xr shtk 3 .
In this context, compilation just refers to the addition of initialization
boilerplate code to the script so that the correct modules can be located and
that a well-known shell interpreter is used.
.Ss Modules
The
.Xr shtk_import 3
function depicted above is used to bring the specified modules into the script.
For details on all existing modules, see the list of cross-referenced pages
in the
.Sx SEE ALSO
section below.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr shtk 1
.Ss Built-in functions
.Xr shtk_import 3
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm
package was developed by
.An Julio Merino
.Aq jmmv@google.com .
