.\" Copyright 2017 Google Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\"
.\" * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" * Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its contributors
.\"   may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"   without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.Dd June 11, 2017
.Dt SHTK_UNITTEST 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm unittest
.Nd Test program implemented using shtk's unittest library
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm test-program
.Op Fl t Ar test-case
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents the general command-line interface to test programs
written using the
.Xr shtk_unittest 3
library.
.Pp
Unless told otherwise, the test program runs
.Em all
the test cases it contains in-process.
The order in which the test cases are run is not pre-determined.
.Pp
The tests are executed in the current directory, so they are subject to
cross-test pollution if they do not clean up after themselves properly.
It is highly recommended that you use
.Xr kyua 1
to orchestrate the execution of these test programs.
.Pp
The following options are supported:
.Bl -tag -width XXXX
.It Fl t Ar test-case
Restricts the set of executed test cases to the one given in
.Ar test-case .
This flag can be provided multiple times to tell the test program which
collection of test cases to run.
.Pp
Standalone test cases are identified by their bare name, and test cases within a
fixture are identified by the fixture's name and the test case's name pair
separated by two underscore characters, like in:
.Sq fixture__test_name .
.Pp
Note that the test program does not currently respect the order in which you
provided the
.Fl t
flags.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
The test program returns 0 if all executed tests passed, or 1 if there was a
problem either in the invocation or in the execution of the tests.
In particular, if filtering of test cases is requested with
.Fl t
and the given tests do not match any test case, the test program will exit with
a 1 error code.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr shtk_unittest 3
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
first appeared in
.Nm shtk
1.6.
The
.Fl t
flag appeared in
.Nm shtk
1.8.
