.\" Copyright 2014 Google Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\"
.\" * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" * Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its contributors
.\"   may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"   without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.Dd November 7, 2014
.Dt SHTK_CVS_FETCH 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm shtk_cvs_fetch
.Nd Checks out or updates a CVS working copy
.Sh LIBRARY
shtk_import cvs
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar cvsroot
.Ar module
.Ar tag
.Ar directory
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
function is a simple wrapper over the lower-level
.Xr shtk_cvs_checkout 3
and
.Xr shtk_cvs_update 3
functions, using one or the other depending on the status of the local
working copy.
.Pp
More specifically: if
.Ar directory
does not yet exist or it is empty, the
.Nm
function checks out a new working copy of the repository
.Ar cvsroot
into it using the given
.Ar module
and
.Ar tag .
If
.Ar directory
does exist and contains a
.Pa CVS
control directory, then the
.Nm
function performs a working copy update of the repository using the given
.Ar tag .
.Pp
The CVS tag provided in
.Ar tag
can be empty, in which case the working copy is checked out from
.Sq HEAD .
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal -offset indent
shtk_cvs_fetch :ext:anoncvs@anoncvs.NetBSD.org:/cvsroot \\
    src netbsd-7 /usr/src
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr shtk 3 ,
.Xr shtk_cvs 3
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
first appeared in
.Nm shtk
1.0.
