.\" Copyright 2014 Google Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\"
.\" * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" * Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its contributors
.\"   may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"   without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.Dd November 7, 2014
.Dt SHTK_VERSION 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm version
.Nd Utilities to check the running version of shtk
.Sh LIBRARY
shtk_import
.Nm
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
module provides functions to check and enforce constraints on the running
version of shtk.
.Pp
Due to the dynamic nature of shell scripts, the functions provided by this
module can be used to determine which modules and functions of
.Nm shtk
can be used in the script.
This is the reason why every manual page in the
.Xr shtk 3
collection is tagged with a
.Sx HISTORY
section describing in which version each symbol first appeared.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
The
.Nm
module offers the following variables for public consumption:
.Bl -tag -width XXXX
.It Va SHTK_VERSION
The version number of the in-use
.Xr shtk 3
libraries.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr shtk 3 ,
.Xr shtk_version_at_least 3 ,
.Xr shtk_version_at_most 3 ,
.Xr shtk_version_is 3
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
first appeared in
.Nm shtk
1.5.
