.\" Copyright 2014 Google Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\"
.\" * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" * Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its contributors
.\"   may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"   without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.Dd November 9, 2014
.Dt SHTK_UNITTEST_ASSERT_FILE 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm shtk_unittest_assert_file
.Nd Validates the contents of a file against golden data
.Sh LIBRARY
shtk_import unittest
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar golden_spec
.Ar actual_file
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
function verifies that
.Ar actual_file ,
which must exist, matches some predefined contents specified by
.Ar golden_spec .
.Pp
The valid values for
.Ar golden_spec
are of the form:
.Bl -tag -offset indent -width XXXX
.It Ar empty
.Ar actual_file must be empty.
.It Ar not-empty
.Ar actual_file must not be empty.
.It Ar ignore
The contents of
.Ar actual_file
are irrelevant.
.It Ar file:\*(Ltpath\*(Gt
The contents of
.Ar actual_file
must match the contents of the file
.Pa path .
.It Ar inline:\*(Lttext\*(Gt
The contents of
.Ar actual_file
must match the inline contents provided in
.Pa text .
Note that
.Pa text
can include escape sequences.
.It Ar match:\*(Ltregexp\*(Gt
The contents of
.Ar actual_file
must match the given regular expression in
.Ar regexp .
.It Ar not-match:\*(Ltregexp\*(Gt
The contents of
.Ar actual_file
must not match the given regular expression in
.Ar regexp .
.It Ar save:\*(Ltpath\*(Gt
.Ar actual_file
is saved to
.Pa path
for further inspection by the test case.
This is not useful in the context of
.Nm
but comes in handy when used in conjunction of
.Xr shtk_unittest_assert_command 3 .
.It Ar stdin
The contents of
.Ar actual_file
must match the golden contents provided via the standard input.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following examples all pass:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
touch my_file
assert_file empty my_file

echo "foo" >my_file
assert_file inline:"foo\\n" my_file

echo "bar" >>my_file
cp my_file golden
assert_file file:golden my_file
assert_file stdin my_file <golden

assert_file match:"fo" my_file
assert_file not-match:"abcde" my_file
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr shtk 3 ,
.Xr shtk_unittest 3
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
first appeared in
.Nm shtk
1.6.
