.\" Copyright 2025 Julio Merino
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\"
.\" * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.Dd January 6, 2025
.Dt SHTK_GIT_CLONE 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm shtk_git_clone
.Nd Checks out a new working copy out of a Git repository
.Sh LIBRARY
shtk_import git
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar repo
.Ar branch
.Ar directory
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
function checks out a new working copy of the repository
.Ar repo
into
.Ar directory
using the given
.Ar branch .
The
.Ar directory
must not exist.
.Pp
In general, you should resort to using the higher-level
.Xr shtk_git_fetch 3
wrapper as it properly handles the case of already existing working
copies.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal -offset indent
shtk_git_clone https://example.com/repo.git master /usr/src
.Ed
.Sh ERRORS
.Nm
aborts execution with an error if the given
.Ar directory
already exists or if the Git clone operation fails.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr shtk 3 ,
.Xr shtk_git 3
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
first appeared in
.Nm shtk
1.8.
