.\" Copyright 2014 Google Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\"
.\" * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" * Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its contributors
.\"   may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"   without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.Dd November 8, 2014
.Dt SHTK_UNITTEST_SET_EXPECT_FAILURE 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm shtk_unittest_set_expect_failure
.Nd Makes the test expect a failure
.Sh LIBRARY
shtk_import unittest
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
function changes the behavior of the test so that a failure indicates
success and a pass indicates a failure.
.Pp
Changing the expectation of the test to a failure is useful for test
cases that exercise a known bug: while the bug is live, the test case
will pass with a message describing the error encountered; however,
when the bug is fixed, the test will start failing indicating that it
needs to be revised.
.Pp
.Nm
can only be called once during the execution of a test case and its
effects cannot be reversed.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr shtk 3 ,
.Xr shtk_unittest 3
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
first appeared in
.Nm shtk
1.6.
