.\" Copyright 2014 Google Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\"
.\" * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" * Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its contributors
.\"   may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"   without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.Dd November 5, 2014
.Dt SHTK_BOOL_CHECK 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm shtk_bool_check
.Nd Converts a string to a boolean value
.Sh LIBRARY
shtk_import bool
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar value
.Op Ar error_message
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
function takes the string
.Ar value
and returns the corresponding boolean value according to shell conventions.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Nm
returns 0 for any
.Ar value
representing truth.
These include the strings
.Sq yes
and
.Sq true ,
including any variations in their capitalization, and the integer number
.Sq 1 .
.Pp
.Nm
returns 1 for any
.Ar value
representing falsehood.
These include the strings
.Sq no
and
.Sq false ,
including any variations in their capitalization, and the integer number
.Sq 0 .
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal -offset indent
local verbose=no
# Parse flags to see if verbose mode is enabled and set verbose=yes.

if shtk_bool_check "${verbose}"; then
    # Print messages.
fi
.Ed
.Sh ERRORS
.Nm
prints the error given in
.Ar error_message
and exits the shell with non-zero if the
.Ar value
does not represent a valid boolean value.
If
.Ar error_message
is not provided, a default message is printed.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr shtk 3 ,
.Xr shtk_bool 3
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
first appeared in
.Nm shtk
1.4.
