.\" Copyright 2016 Google Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\"
.\" * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" * Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its contributors
.\"   may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"   without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.Dd September 18, 2016
.Dt SHTK_FS_NORMALIZE_PATH 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm shtk_fs_normalize_path
.Nd Returns a normalized form of a path
.Sh LIBRARY
shtk_import fs
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar path
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
function takes the given
.Ar path
and prints its normalized form to stdout.
.Pp
This process involves the following:
.Bl -bullet
.It
Collapsing multiple consecutive forward slashes into one.
.It
Adding a
.Pa \&.
component at the beginning of the path if it is relative.
.It
Removing any
.Pa \&.
components, except for the first one.
.It
Removing any trailing slashes.
.El
.Pp
Note that the normalization happens
.Em without
performing any file system operations.
Therefore, it is perfectly possible for two normalized paths that look different
to point to the same file system entry.
In particular, this is because normalization does not take into account links
nor
.Pa ..
components.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Nm
returns 0.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal -offset indent
shtk_fs_normalize_path /foo/bar  # Prints /foo/bar
shtk_fs_normalize_path foo/bar  # Prints ./foo/bar
shtk_fs_normalize_path foo///bar/./baz//  # Prints ./foo/bar/baz
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr shtk 3 ,
.Xr shtk_fs 3
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
first appeared in
.Nm shtk
1.7.
