.\" Copyright 2014 Google Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\"
.\" * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" * Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its contributors
.\"   may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"   without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.Dd January 6, 2025
.Dt SHTK_PROCESS_RUN 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm shtk_process_run
.Nd Executes a command in a controlled environment
.Sh LIBRARY
shtk_import run
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl t Ar seconds
.Op Fl w Ar work_dir
.Ar command
.Op Ar arg1 .. argN
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
function executes the command provided in the list of arguments starting at
.Ar command
and logs, using the logging functions offered by
.Xr shtk_cli 3 ,
the invocation of the command and its termination status.
.Pp
The command given to
.Nm
is executed in the current directory, unless the
.Fl w Ar work_dir
flag is used to specify a different work directory.
.Pp
Optionally,
.Nm
can enforce a maximum run time for the executed command.
If the
.Fl t
is provided, then the executed command will be forcibly terminated with a
.Sq KILL
signal if its run time exceeds the given
.Ar seconds .
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Nm
returns the exit code of the executed command, or 127 if a timeout was provided
and the command timed out.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr shtk 3 ,
.Xr shtk_process 3
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
first appeared in
.Nm shtk
1.0.
.Pp
The
.Fl t
flag appeared in
.Nm shtk
1.5.
.Pp
The
.Fl w
flag appeared in
.Nm shtk
1.8.
