.\" Copyright 2014 Google Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\"
.\" * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" * Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its contributors
.\"   may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"   without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.Dd November 9, 2014
.Dt SHTK_UNITTEST_ASSERT_COMMAND 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm shtk_unittest_assert_command
.Nd Runs a command and validates its exit status and output
.Sh LIBRARY
shtk_import unittest
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl e output_spec
.Op Fl o output_spec
.Op Fl s exit_code_spec
.Ar command Op arg1 .. argN
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
function runs the command provided in the arguments starting at
.Ar command ,
which can possibly refer to an in-process shell function, and verifies both
its exit status and its output to stdout and stderr.
If any of the checks fails, the calling test case fails as well.
.Nm
is the most versatile check offered by
.Xr shtk_unittest 3
and should be used to validate the majority of the executions performed
by test cases.
.Ss Exit checks
The
.Fl s
flag can be used to specify a check on the exit status of the
.Ar command .
If this flag is not given, the default is to expect a successful exit;
in other words, that
.Ar command
exits zero.
.Pp
The valid values for
.Ar exit_code_spec
are of the form:
.Bl -tag -offset indent -width XXXX
.It Ar \*(Ltexit-code\*(Gt
The exit code of the command must match
.Ar exit-code .
.It Ar ignore
The exit code of the command is irrelevant.
.It Ar exit:\*(Ltexit-code\*(Gt
The exit code of the command must match
.Ar exit-code .
.It Ar not-exit:\*(Ltexit-code\*(Gt
The exit code of the command must not match
.Ar exit-code .
.It Ar signal:\*(Ltsignal-number\*(Gt
The command must have been terminated by signal
.Ar signal-number ,
which can be provided both as an integer or as a name.
.It Ar not-signal:\*(Ltsignal-number\*(Gt
The command must have been terminated by a signal and the signal must
not be
.Ar signal-number ,
which can be provided both as an integer or as a name.
.El
.Ss Output checks
The
.Fl o
and
.Fl e
flags can be used to specify a check on the contents of stdout or
stderr, respectively, of the
.Ar command .
If no checks are specified, the default is to expect the outputs to be
empty.
.Pp
The valid values for
.Ar output_spec
are the same as the ones described in
.Xr shtk_unittest_assert_file 3 .
.Sh EXAMPLES
In the simplest form,
.Nm
checks for success and no output so the following invocation would pass:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
assert_command true
.Ed
.Pp
However, the following invocations would fail:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
assert_command false
assert_command echo "foo"
.Ed
.Pp
With flags, the expectations of the executed command can be changed.
For example, the following variants of the above would now pass:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
assert_command -s exit:1 false
assert_command -o inline:"foo\\n" echo "foo"
.Ed
.Pp
Built-in functions are also allowed as commands:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
my_verbose_command() {
    echo "sent to stdout"
    echo "sent to stderr: ${*}" 1>&2
    exit 42
}

echo "sent to stderr: arg1 arg2" >experr
assert_command -s exit:42 -o inline:"sent to stdout\\n" \\
    -e file:experr my_verbose_command arg1 arg2
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr shtk 3 ,
.Xr shtk_unittest 3
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
first appeared in
.Nm shtk
1.6.
