.\" Copyright 2016 Google Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\"
.\" * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" * Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its contributors
.\"   may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"   without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.Dd February 3, 2016
.Dt SHTK_CLI_SET_LOG_LEVEL 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm shtk_cli_set_log_level
.Nd Sets the level of the logging messages to display
.Sh LIBRARY
shtk_import cli
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar level
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
function sets the maximum logging level of the messages that will be sent
to stderr.
The possible values for
.Ar level
are, in order of severity:
.Sq error ,
.Sq warning ,
.Sq info
and
.Sq debug ,
and correspond to the various functions of the form
.Sq shtk_cli_\*(Ltlevel\*(Gt .
.Pp
For example: setting the level to
.Sq warning
would display error-level and warning-level messages but would omit info-level
and debug-level messages.
This is an appropriate way of implementing a quiet/verbose mode in applications.
.Pp
It is important to note that error-level messages are always displayed because
the minimum logging level that can be set is
.Sq error .
.Pp
The current log level can be programmatically queried with the
.Xr shtk_cli_log_level 3
function and the default level corresponds to
.Sq info .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr shtk 3 ,
.Xr shtk_cli_log_level 3
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
first appeared in
.Nm shtk
1.7.
