.\" Copyright 2014 Google Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\"
.\" * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" * Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its contributors
.\"   may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"   without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.Dd November 6, 2014
.Dt SHTK_CONFIG 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm config
.Nd Configuration file processing and queries
.Sh LIBRARY
shtk_import
.Nm
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
module provides a mechanism to load configuration files and to handle any
settings defined in them.
.Pp
Configuration files are simply shell scripts that can define a set of predefined
variables.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Consider the following configuration file:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
MYVAR1="this is the first setting"
MYVAR2="this is the second setting"

post_load_hook() {
    echo "Custom hook! The file has been loaded!"
}
.Ed
.Pp
The following sample code depicts a
.Nm main
method to load the file above, including support for specifying the path to the
configuration file and support to accept command-line overrides to the
configuration variables:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
local config_file="/etc/foo.conf"

shtk_config_init MYVAR1 MYVAR2

local OPTIND
while getopts ':c:o:' arg "${@}"; do
    case "${arg}" in
        c)  # Path to the configuration to load.
            config_file="${OPTARG}"
            ;;

        o)  # Override for a particular configuration variable.
            shtk_config_override "${OPTARG}"
            ;;

        \\?)
            shtk_cli_usage_error "Unknown option -${OPTARG}"
            ;;
    esac
done
shift $((${OPTIND} - 1))

shtk_config_set MYVAR1 "default value for first variable"
# No default value for MYVAR2
post_load_hook() { true; }

shtk_config_load "${config_file}"

echo "MYVAR1 is $(shtk_config_get MYVAR1)"
echo "MYVAR2 is $(shtk_config_get_default MYVAR2 "not yet set")"
shtk_config_run_hook post_load_hook
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr shtk 3 ,
.Xr shtk_config_get 3 ,
.Xr shtk_config_get_bool 3 ,
.Xr shtk_config_get_default 3 ,
.Xr shtk_config_has 3 ,
.Xr shtk_config_include 3 ,
.Xr shtk_config_init 3 ,
.Xr shtk_config_load 3 ,
.Xr shtk_config_override 3 ,
.Xr shtk_config_run_hook 3 ,
.Xr shtk_config_set 3 ,
.Xr shtk_config_unset 3
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
first appeared in
.Nm shtk
1.0.
