.\" Copyright 2014 Google Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\"
.\" * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" * Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its contributors
.\"   may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"   without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.Dd November 8, 2014
.Dt SHTK_UNITTEST_FAIL 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm shtk_unittest_fail
.Nd Fails the test case
.Sh LIBRARY
shtk_import unittest
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar arg1 .. argN
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
function marks the currently running test case as failed and aborts
execution.
The message given in the arguments
.Ar arg1
through
.Ar argN
is printed along the failure.
.Pp
If
.Nm
is used within a test case of a test fixture, the
.Nm teardown
method of the fixture will be executed so that any necessary clean up
operations can be performed.
.Pp
.Nm
should be used to fail the test case when an erroneous condition is
detected and such condition prevents the rest of the test case's
code from running correctly.
In general, this means that
.Nm
is appropriate to abort a test case when any setup operations not
directly exercising the scenario under test cause an error.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr shtk 3 ,
.Xr shtk_unittest 3
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
first appeared in
.Nm shtk
1.6.
