.\" Copyright 2017 Google Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\"
.\" * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" * Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its contributors
.\"   may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"   without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.Dd February 6, 2017
.Dt SHTK_HW_CPUS 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm shtk_hw_ncpus
.Nd Queries the number of CPUs (threads) in the machine
.Sh LIBRARY
shtk_import hw
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
function queries the number of CPU threads in the machine and prints the total
number to stdout.
.Pp
If the query fails, or if the function does not know how to get the number from
the current operating system, prints 1.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Nm
returns 0.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal -offset indent
make -j"$(shtk_hw_ncpus)" all
.Ed
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width XXXX
.It Va SHTK_HW_NCPUS
If set to a number greater than zero, overrides the return value of
.Nm .
Generally useful for testing purposes, but can also be useful to inject greater
numbers of parallelism in applications that do not expose a mechanism to tune
such number.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr shtk 3 ,
.Xr shtk_hw 3
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
first appeared in
.Nm shtk
1.7.
