.\" Copyright 2014 Google Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\"
.\" * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" * Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its contributors
.\"   may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"   without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.Dd November 8, 2014
.Dt SHTK_UNITTEST_ADD_FIXTURE 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm shtk_unittest_add_fixture
.Nd Defines a test fixture
.Sh LIBRARY
shtk_import unittest
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar name
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
function registers the fixture given by
.Ar name .
A function named
.Sq \*(Ltname\*(Gt_fixture
must be defined
.Em after
the call to
.Nm
has been made.
.Pp
Fixture functions must not directly contain any code.
All they can do is define other functions, such as
.Nm setup
and
.Nm teardown ,
and execute calls to
.Xr shtk_unittest_add_test 3 .
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following piece of code illustrates the components of a test fixture:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
shtk_unittest_add_fixture my_collection
my_collection_fixture() {
    setup() {
        ... optional function providing per-test setup code ...
    }

    teardown() {
        ... optional function providing per-test teardown code ...
    }

    shtk_unittest_add_test first_scenario
    first_scenario_test() {
        ... test code for the first test case ...
    }

    shtk_unittest_add_test second_scenario
    second_scenario_test() {
        ... test code for the second test case ...
    }
}
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr shtk 3 ,
.Xr shtk_unittest 3
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
first appeared in
.Nm shtk
1.6.
